# Cashu dev call #0 -- 2023-07-27

## 1. Introduction

Agenda: https://hackmd.io/W6wcklkeSsS075EmWNercQ?view

Note meeting conducted under Chatham House rule. Minutes will of-course follow the rule too.

Around 16 nutjobs attending the call at the starting time.

> When a meeting, or part thereof, is held under the Chatham House Rule,
> participants are free to use the information received, but neither the
> identity nor the affiliation of the speaker(s), nor that of any other
> participant, may be revealed.


## 2. HRF bounties for Cashu projects

Human Rights Foundation (HRF) announced bounties including for work on Cashu earlier today (2BTC total, 4 x 0.5BTC Cashu bounties). More detail expected from them soon.

https://twitter.com/gladstein/status/1684567115024732160

 - 0.5BTC for fully-functional iOS wallet app
 - 0.5BTC for fully-functional Android wallet app
 - 0.5BTC for open-source Cashu web widget for anonymous paywalled content (HTTP 402?)
 - 0.5BTC for Cashu-TS backup restore

(Not quoted exactly as tweeted/Xpressed by @gladstein)

Further detail and requirements for these bounties as proposed to HRF by Cashu devs shared with the call.

We think e.g 'React Native' or another cross-platform app would count and be able to collect both the Android and iOS app bounties. Noted that in either case it'd still have to be on the Apple and Google app stores.

KaiOS as an interesting platform was also mentioned, https://www.kaiostech.com/explore/devices/.

First-come, first served for collecting bounties. Don't have to notify HRF you're working towards it. (Not a grant, they're bounties -- paid on completion)


## 3. Project updates

Discussing Cashu broadly as a protocol development project. Priorities are

 1. privacy
 2. easy to implement
 3. extendable

Ease of implementation is a superpower, learnt through LNBits/LNUrl/Nostr stuff where this has helped lost of projects get started without high upfront effort (contrast: Lightning 😜)

Lots of Cashu projects and implementations already! Using Python, TypeScript, Rust and more.

### 1. eNuts

Native mobile Cashu wallet. Using React Native.

https://github.com/cashubtc/eNuts

All NUTS implemented already, (also using Cashu-TS). Working on UI and UX now.

Want to release soon, but want to improve testing.

Hoping for APK and TestFlight releases real soon.

[v0.1.1-alpha](https://github.com/cashubtc/eNuts/releases/tag/v0.1.1-alpha) released 3 weeks ago 🎉

### 2. Minibits

https://github.com/minibits-cash/minibits_wallet

Another wallet app, also using Cashu-TS. Android app working, iOS in progress.

[v.0.0.6-alpha](https://github.com/minibits-cash/minibits_wallet/releases/tag/v0.0.6-alpha) released last week 🎉

Some discussion of how to handle backups for Cashu wallets. Maybe we should be flexible and try different strategies for doing backup and restore, and see what works best -- instead of being stiff and spec'ing something out first on paper and then insisting everyone implements that. (General agreement on this point)

### Tangent - Nutstash wallet

https://github.com/gandlafbtc/nutstash-wallet

Looking through first-time user UX. Still working through UI design decisions -- input wanted

When connecting to mint(s) for the first time, offering multiple 'defaults' and not picking one for the user is great.

### 3. ProxNut

A Cashu proxy that asks for nuts for a right of passage. (Paid API gateway)

https://github.com/gandlafbtc/proxnut and https://proxnut.com/

ProxNut is pretty early in dev, but runnable with Docker.

Wondering if it's possible to write a browser extension that could inject a header (e.g. `X-Cashu`) in to every outbound request the browser makes?

### 4. Cashcrab

https://github.com/thesimplekid/cashcrab

Cashu mobile wallet with Nostr contacts and direct messaging. Using `cashu-crab` Rust Cashu library.

https://cashcrab.me -- Nostr web Cashu point-of-sale thing that DMs Cashu tokens to you over Nostr.

### 5. Moksha

https://github.com/ngutech21/moksha

A Cashu wallet and mint written in Rust.

Building a kinda cypherpunky desktop wallet -- using Flutter for UI at the moment.

Also building to support Fedimint as well as Cashu.

Interested in building a Mint discovery service, as that's kinda missing. Probably built over Nostr.

### Any other project/development updates?

Nope 🥜

## 4. New: Pay-to-Pubkey (P2PK)

*Because of meeting runtime, will skip this agenda item and cover at the next dev meeting.*


## 5. Cashu: next steps

Questions about protocol development?

Of-course using NUTs for proposing changes to the Cashu protocol.

Some devs have had difficulty with different error reasons/codes/responses from different wallet implementations.
This can make wallet/client dev difficult and confusing.

Interest in a NUT for standardized mint error codes/responses -- though clients/wallets would still have to handle getting different errors because mints could be wrong.

How to implement time expiry?

Could 'just' rug the user by rotation keys, this kinda sucks for the user. Other alternates would seemingly be smart contracts. Also wouldn't work per-user, as it'd affect the whole mint.

Need some mechanism that counts time too, also would need this for HTLCs (time-locked contracts) (see recent Pay-to-Pubkey (P2PK) work).


## 6. Decide how to proceed with dev calls?

### a. Date and format for next call

Suggest infrequent but regular? Agreed monthly.

Same for the time zone, 16:00 UTC works for now.

Agreed also to lock to a weekday, th last Thursday of the month -- that makes the next call the 31st of August.

### b. Topics to discuss

Balance project updates with dev work -- want to cover *pressing issues* with projects, trying to prioritize covering PRs/Issues that need attention and discussion, particularly for NUTs.
Helps ensure we can be productibe and get actionable outcomes from the call.

Then can cover general Project Updates, general discussion, AOB.
