# Cashu dev call #1 -- 2023-08-31

## 1. Introduction

 - Meet link: https://meet.fulmo.org/CashuCashuCashuCashuCashuCashuDevCall01
 - Agenda: https://hackmd.io/iNsHa_a-Tp6OFReLNB5SHw
 - Previous call [Cashu Dev Call 2023-07-27](./Cashu Dev Call 2023-07-27.md)

Note meeting conducted under Chatham House rule. Minutes will follow the rule too.

Around 8 nutjobs attending the call at the starting time.

## 2. NUT-10: P2PK presentation

[NUT-10: P2PK Pull Request](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/pull/40) from @callebtc

Still a draft NUT, but [implemented](https://github.com/cashubtc/cashu/pull/284) in Nutshell already to help work it out.

Motivation: Why do we need this? e.g. sending eCash over Nostr, we only want the intended recipient to be able to redeem the token, not just anyone that sees it in a note.

Can also allow multisig eCash for group ownership and other stuff getting a bit closer to on-chain bitcoin custody and spending conditions.

For nostr zaps we need two things:

 1. P2PK(H) to lock to recipient
 2. DLEQ proofs for external observers to validate mint's signatures on the ecash.

Reminder cashu has three transation types:

 1. split
 2. mint
 3. melt

For *split* and *melt* the inputs are cashu tokens, so these are the transactions that need to support spending conditions.

Note that the *mint* has to be trusted to enforce the spending conditions.

For normal (current) eCash, the only spending condition is the mint is satisfied it signed the `secret`, and that the `secret` is valid (unique).

Non-token-specific spending conditions are pretty trivial.

"What part of eCash does the user control?" -- the `secret`. The user handles the blinding, but the mint still controls the signature. So the idea is that any spending conditions the user wants to set will have to live in the `secret`.

Important too that the mint does eventually see the `secret`, but only at the point where the token is being spent.

If we encode spending conditions in the `secret`, we still have to stick to the rule that every `secret` for a given mint has to be unique (never seen before) for the token to be valid.

Anything that moves `secrets` away from being completely random will introduce structure that reduces the privacy of the ecash (e.g. using an identifiable spending condition), but this is a problem that Bitcoin also has.

We could 'just' use the existing bitcoin script stack-based language and the same conditions for it being valid, i.e. that the stack just has `true` once the script and stuff have finished executing.

The benefit of this is that we get all the spending conditions that bitcoin script can support (i.e., not things like timelocks without having to trust the mint to truthfully check the block height or time)

Q: For P2PK eCash, are the signatures ECDSA or Schnorr?
A: Schnorr, same as taproot and nostr, but potential for some confusion.

Cashu does actually have P2SH implemented using Bitcoin script, but it's a bit clunky. Also sneaking things like block height and time in to the script library is very janky.

But, we'd still need a data structure for the `secret` to be able to do this.
Suggest that this is pretty similar to a Nostr note, just a simple JSON object so basically any client can parse/create it, particularly mobile and web clients.

```json
[
kind <str>, 
  {
    "nonce": <str>,
    "data": <str>,
    "tags": [[ "key", "value"],  ... ], // (optional)
  }
]
```

We can keep this "well known" data structure that goes in the `secret` pretty simple, and add conditions/new features later by extending the possible `tags` values. So extending from the simple P2PK(H) to supporting multisig, locktimes, refunds, etc. is pretty trivial.

The "everything bagel":

```json
[
  "P2PK",
  {
    "nonce": "da62796403af76c80cd6ce9153ed3746",
    "data": "033281c37677ea273eb7183b783067f5244933ef78d8c3f15b1a77cb246099c26e",
    "tags": [
      [
        "sigflag",
        "SIG_ALL"
      ], 
      [
        "n_sigs",
        "2"
      ], 
      [
        "locktime",
        "1689418329"
      ],                   
      [
        "refund",
        "033281c37677ea273eb7183b783067f5244933ef78d8c3f15b1a77cb246099c26e"
      ],      
      [
        "pubkey",
        "02698c4e2b5f9534cd0687d87513c759790cf829aa5739184a3e3735471fbda904"
      ],
      [
        "pubkey",
        "023192200a0cfd3867e48eb63b03ff599c7e46c8f4e41146b2d281173ca6c50c54"
      ]      
    ]
  }
]
```


## 3. CDK: Cashu Development Kit in Rust

What is the CDK: Library in Rust to make implementing wallets and mints as-easy as possible, similar to BDK, LDK, NDK (NVK?)

Using Rust like the other 'DKs partly because it's pretty easy to make bindings for it for lots of other languages.

General consensus that working on one "CDK" would be worthwhile, going with Rust like the other 'DKs makes sense.


## 4. cashcrab update (split into two crates, ffi bindings)

https://github.com/thesimplekid/cashu-crab

Split the existing crate so break out the low-level stuff and the higher-level interface (ffi), networking etc.

Python bindings in the works: https://github.com/thesimplekid/cashu-crab/pull/8, Kotlin and Swift and JS soon (?)

Kinda following the structure of the Nostr rust library for similar dev experience.

Shared/Recommended: https://thunderbiscuit.github.io/uniffi-examples/ which BDK uses to make binding in to other langs work.
https://bitcoindevkit.org/blog/bindings-scope/
https://github.com/thunderbiscuit/uniffi-bindings-template


## 5. PR Review Club

 - (Merged) NUTs "NUT-07: Token state check" https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/blob/main/07.md
 - (Draft) Cashu Nutshell "check lightning invoice in-flight" https://github.com/cashubtc/cashu/pull/306
 - (Open) Cashu Nutshell "[REFACTOR] use bolt11 library" https://github.com/cashubtc/cashu/pull/297
 - (Open) Cashu Nutshell "Join mint URL and endpoint in a safe way" https://github.com/cashubtc/cashu/pull/298
 - (Open) Cashu Nutshell "simplify `amount_split` by iterating over amount bits" https://github.com/cashubtc/cashu/pull/245
 - (Draft) Cashu Nutshell "[Mint] DB tools: export mint and burn proofs as csv" https://github.com/cashubtc/cashu/pull/287
   * For persistence and safety, want something like this that does backups etc.
   * Could look at how Redis' append-only-file is used as a persistence model
 - (Open) NUTs "Proposal: sunset cashu_wallet_spec file" https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/issues/36

How do we make sure mints (and wallets) are behaving in the same manner (don't want to emulate bitcoin-core where the code is kinda the only spec and competing implementations are incredibly hard to write)

More test vectors for NUTs would be a great start


## Next Dev Call: 28th September 2023

Will repeat meeting on the last thursday of the month.
