# Cashu Dev Call 03 October 26, 2023
* 10 attendees
* 
## Agenda

The great cleanup progress report
/v1/ API
Multiple currency symbols (eg. sat, msat, usd, …)
Multiple payment methods (eg. bolt11, on-chain, …)
Fix Keyset ID calculation (base64 -> hex), add version byte? (discuss)
Nutstrike demo?

## Discussion
Calle opened the call

### The great cleanup progress report
* a couple of breaking changes - a couple of design choices need to be fixed before it grows further
* Introduce new api and models
* introduced a v1 route
* keep old routes alive for as long as possible
* to eventually kill old api and eventually embrace the new one
* new route and endpoints
* want to support multiple currency levels - each currency has its own keyset
* multiple payment methods lightning/onchain
* Fix Keyset ID base64 -> hex , add version byte
* discussion of how to support multiple currencies

* New PR for great clean up
* discussion on how to specify currencies - enum list or specify lowercase ISO codes for currency
* Keyset ID - new format - discussion of whether keyset derivation should be using strings or bytearrays
* good idea to do bytes instead of strings
* make sure the tests are explicit
* provided an overview of: mint quote request and mint quote response, melt quote request / melt quote response
* may need to have fields for different level of fees for onchain
* need to make the endpoints looks the same. eg. return a list with one item for lightning versus multiple for onchain
* need to focus on certain backends.
* need to specify what fee options actually mean.
* proposal: add new routes for each back end
* each additional backend route has its own NUT
* discussion of adding more info to info endpoint (payment methods, nuts support, etc.)
* presentation of other minor changes

### Stablesat implementation
* Strike has a REST API , Stablesats has a GraphQL API
* [Link](https://github.com/ngutech21/moksha/pull/154)

## Issues
* Keysets with uncapped amounts
* Uniform secret structure - standardize to eliminate wallet fingerprint - needs to be a recommendation
* what is a token? need to ensure old wallets still work.
* discussion of coin selection algoriths
*  



