---
title: Cashu dev call 09

---

# Cashu dev call 09
:::success
:calendar: _April 25 2024, 16:00 UTC_
:::

## Agenda
- NUT-XX: On-chain mint and melt [PR](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/pull/107)
- NUT-XX: Websockets [PR](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/pull/98)
- NUT-14 merged 🎉: HTLCs [PR](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/pull/104)
- NUT-00: TokenV4 binary token format [PR](https://github.com/cashubtc/nuts/pull/109)
- WIP: Fees, Auth
- Demo: Websockets
- PoL (?)
- Multi-unit wallets (staging.cashu.me, Minibits WIP)
- v1 progress (protocol, wallets, mints)
- Lightning gateways
- Smaller units

## Minutes and notes
...

## Presentation notes

### Lightning gateways

Allows users of a mint to offer a Lightning gateway for external payments. Only supports paying (not receiving) over Lightning. API is very similar to melt request to the mint. 

Uses HTLCs! Which means that it is atomic:

- Wallet: hey can you pay this invoice `request` on this `mint`? I'll give you `unit` tokens.
- Gateway: sure, here is your `quote`, I want `amount` of `unit` in ecash. The ecash must be an HTLC with a minimum `expiry` and you have to lock them to my `pubkey`. The HTLC hash must be the same one as the `request`.
- Wallet: ok, I want you to pay `quote`, here are the nuts as `inputs`
- Gateway: checks everything and pays invoice. When invoice is paid, unlocks the ecash

Protocol so far:

```python
class GatewayMeltQuoteRequest(BaseModel):
    unit: str  # input unit
    request: str # output payment request
    mint: str # mint url


class GatewayMeltQuoteResponse(BaseModel):
    quote: str  # quote id
    pubkey: str  # P2PK pubkey of the gateway
    amount: int  # input amount
    expiry: int  # expiry of the quote
    paid: bool  # whether the quote has been paid


class GatewayMeltRequest(BaseModel):
    quote: str# quote id
    inputs: List[Proof]


class GatewayMeltResponse(BaseModel):
    paid: Union[bool, None]
    payment_preimage: Union[str, None]

```

### Smaller units
Question: What's the best way to design keysets for smaller units?

Currently:
```json
{
    "id": "12345",
    "unit": "sat",
    "keys": {
        <amount_int>: <public_key_str>,
        ...
      }
}
```

**Option 1:** Invent new keyset unit, e.g. "msat"

We just invent a new keyset that has a smaller denomination and that's it. This already works in nutshell (not activated) but the current implementation can convert msat to sat and vice versa.

Pros: 
- straightforward and in-spec
- If `msat` <-> `sat` conversions are not allowed, easy to implement

Cons:
- Wallets need to display / treat units separately: sat, msat, usd, musd
- If conversion is allowed, better UX but harder to implement and conversion "rates" must be hard-coded (how does a wallet or mint know that 1000 msat = 1 sat)?

```json
{
    "id": "12345",
    "unit": "msat",
    "keys": {
        <amount_int>: <public_key_str>,
        ...
      }
}
```

**Option 2:** Add `precision` to keyset

Precision determines by how many powers of 10 the unit needs to be divided by: 1 sat with precision 3 is 1 msat

Pros: 
- Very versatilye, precision can be changed as wished
- Does not introduce new "unit"

Cons:

- not in-spec and upgrade must be hard forked (how does an old wallet know?)
- confusing for calculating amounts and balances in the wallet
- hard to implement

```json
{
    "id": "12345",
    "unit": "sat",
    "precision": 3,
    "keys": {
        <amount_int>: <public_key_str>,
        ...
      }
}
```

**Option 3:** Move to floating point amounts

Amounts could be floats: 0.001 sat = 1msat

Pros: 
- Very versatile
- Does not need new "unit"
- "Relatively" easy to implement (wallet and mint side)

Cons:

- Not in-spec! Many request and response fields (mint quote, melt quote) would have to be adjusted
- Floats are nasty
- Dealing with integers and floats for the same fields is a bit nasty (but probably in json spec)

```json
{
    "id": "12345",
    "unit": "sat",
    "keys": {
        <amount_float>: <public_key_str>,
        ...
      }
}
```
